You implemented the sigma point generation in C plus plus.
That's very good, because it's
a great preparation for the project at the end of this module.
Now you know how to represent the uncertainty of
the posterior state estimation with sigma points,
and we can put the sigma points into the process function.
But wait a second, the process function also considers the process noise vector mu k,
and this also has a nonlinear effect.
Fortunately, the UKF provides a super easy way,
to handle nonlinear process noise effects,
and this is what I want to show you in this video.
Let's look into this process noise again.
This is the complete process model,
considering the process noise vector.
Looking at this, some of you might think,
wait a second didn't we say this type of vector is the process vector mu k?
Yes, you're absolutely right.
In the last lesson about the common filter,
this was what we called mu k,
and that made a big difference because,
you had to calculate this big process noise covariance matrix Q.
The thing is, if you look into literature and you find this process noise vector mu k,
you really have to be careful what the author's mean.
Sometimes, they mean this vector.
Each row of this vector,
tells the influence of the process noise,
on a specific state between k and k plus one.
So, it has the same dimension as the state vector,
and it depends on delta t. Mostly,
this is the case when you read about the standard linear common filter.
But sometimes the author's mean this vector.
This is something much simpler because this vector just
lists the individual independent noise processes.
This vector doesn't say anything about
the effect of these noise processes on the state vector,
and it does not depend on delta t. Usually,
this is what authors mean when they write about the unscented common filter.
This is you confuse me a lot when I started getting into common filters.
So, in this lesson about the UKF,
when I mentioned UK,
I'm always talking about this process noise vector,
and this is a good thing because,
the covariance matrix Q of this process noise,
is much simpler in this case.
To write down this matrix,
you just need to know the stochastic properties of
these noise processes which we already defined.
Then Q is given by this matrix.
This matrix contains the variances of the noise processes.
The co-variances here is zero,
because the longitudinal acceleration noise
and the yaw acceleration noise are considered independent.
Now, we clarified what this process noise vector is,
and what its covariance matrix Q looks like.
What I want to show you now,
is how you can represent the uncertainty of the covariance matrix Q, with sigma points.
The solution is called augmentation.
This is an overview on how we generated sigma points without considering Q.
What we will do now is,
build the augmented state,
where we add the noise vector to the state vector,
I call this state XA.
The augmented state dimension in our case is seven.
This also means we need 15 sigma points now.
The additional four sigma points will be
representing the uncertainty caused by the process noise.
We also build the augmented covariance matrix PA.
This matrix has seven rows, and seven columns.
You just add the matrix Q as a lower right block,
and fill up the remaining fields with a zero.
Finally, the way to generate the 15 sigma points is exactly the same as before.
Just use the augmented elements as input.
In the next quiz,
you will adapt your sigma point generation function,
to the augmented state.